Israel's prime minister Benyamin
Netanyahu says his country has entered
the second stage of the war with Hamas
after ramping up ground operations in
Gaza speaking with war cabinet minister
Benny Gant and defense minister yav
galand Netanyahu described the conflict
as Israel's second war of independence
he said their goal was to destroy
hamas's military capabilities and its
control of the Gaza Strip Israel again
warned civilians to evacuate the
northern part of the besieged territory
Israel's Defense Forces have continued
intense bombing of the Gaza Strip
ignoring international calls for a
humanitarian ceasefire cell phone and
internet services are gradually being
restored in Gaza having been knocked
out gazans taken the devastation caused
by Israel's heaviest attacks yet on
Gaza the bombardment flattening more
homes destroying some of the last
refuges for families seeking SA safety
from the
violence Israel says its troops are now
on the ground in Gaza amid a quote new
phase in its war on the islamist
militant group
Hamas the Israel Defense Forces told
gazin to move South
immediately but it's a warning many may
not receive with almost all
Communications to The Enclave knocked
out the bombing
of the Telecommunications infrastructure
places the civilian population in grave
danger ambulances and civil defense
teams are no longer able to locate the
injured or thousands of people estimated
to be still under the rubble and
civilians are no longer able to receive
updated information on where they can
access humanitarian relief and where
they may be in less
danger and as the destruction and Gaza
and intensifies those fleeing are
running out of places to
go I'm driving people who want to leave
con yunus they're afraid of the dire
situation the bombing is indiscriminate
neither children nor adults are spared
nor women or the elderly no
one the Hamas lead Health authorities
report more than
7,700 people have died so far in the
attacks a devastating toll which is
likely to rise as Israel's military
pushes further into
Gaza Rebecca ridders is in ashdod in
southern Israel Rebecca you describe the
sights and sounds of the beginning of
this escalation yesterday what's
happening there
today well Anthony as we now know as was
confirmed by prime minister Benin
Netanyahu last night we are seeing the
second phase of this war and that began
on Friday evening with the the
beginnings of a ground invas
Israeli troops entering Gaza not just
for these so-called limited raids that
they've been doing in the lead up to
Friday night but now something more
permanent accompanied by the heaviest
bombardment in the strip that we've seen
so far in 3 weeks of war that was
followed by last night also an
incredibly heavy bombardment from where
we were standing in the city of stot
just a couple of kilometers from the
Gaza border you can actually feel the
waves from the air strike so imagining
what it must be like as a civilian in
Gaza in the dark with at last night no
Communications waiting to see whether
one of those strikes was going to hit
your building it's really impossible to
imagine to put yourself in those shoes
uh we know that from benim Netanyahu
that this is going to be uh a long
operation as he was saying last night
that this is going to take a long time
there are a couple of scenarios that
people are talking about that we're
looking at and that's whether or not
they will continue with this kind of uh
limited ground Invasion and try and do
smaller incursions into areas we know
that they're trying to dismantle part of
the tunnel networks and that they're
obviously trying to get to as many Hamas
militants to try and uh take away their
military capabilities while at the same
time balancing the hostage situation
more than 200 Israeli hostages still in
that Gaza Strip area they still don't
know exactly where they are and
obviously don't want to do as limit
limited damage to to to the people the
Israelis are there who are who are
potentially in those tunnels so we've
with that's one scenario or the fact
that they might be Paving the way for
what will be uh a bigger ground Invasion
we know that there are hundreds of
thousands of troops uh amassed at the
border ready to go in and a lot of
equipment as well and as I said Benjamin
Netanyahu is saying this is going to
take a very long time we see that the
military have said that that without a
ground invasion they can't achieve their
goals so it is expected that that might
happen and we're seeing calls again uh
for civilians who still might be in the
north to head further south to relative
relatively safe safer areas Rebecca
there are reports uh from afar that
communication networks in Gaza are
returning is that what you're hearing as
well yes we've had uh confirmation from
one of the providers in uh the Gaza
Strip that they are Resto slowly
restoring uh Communications there I
haven't been able to contact anybody
that uh we're in contact with so far but
that has been pretty constant over the
last three weeks as people try and
desperately seek charging stations they
going to local shops where they might
have a solar panel charging station that
they can use so people with very limited
electricity also not being able to
connect to networks but we are seeing
that the power is slowly uh sorry that
the telecommunication services are
slowly being restored that was a real
concern uh the few people that could get
messages out either via satellite or
perhaps with an Israeli SIM card or
foreign SIM card were were um you know
speaking of Intolerable conditions and
not being able to communicate with
friends or loved ones to find out if
they're okay and also of course the much
much needed Emergency Services not being
able to be contacted or told where to go
when air strikes were happening so that
is uh a small sliver of good news this
morning Rebecca ridders from ashd in
southern Israel thanks so
much for some analysis of the latest
developments we can talk to military
expert Mike Martin of King's College in
London welcome to you Mike I wonder what
is Israel's strategy now in what it
calls the the second stage of this
operation in
Gaza it's very difficult to get precise
information but it does appear that uh
Israel rather than launching a full
invasion is is having an incursion and
it seems like there will be a series of
incursions over the coming weeks and
months where they move into an area and
try and control it um and that's really
I guess reflective of the fact that it's
incredibly difficult to move in the
Urban Terrain Hamas is very well
prepared it's been there for 30 years
there are extensive tunnel systems and
so I think Israel has to will be looking
to move into small areas at a time and
then and then move forward from that
Mike exactly how difficult is it going
to be uh you outlined some of the the
terrain there for us as this Israeli
operation shifts right down onto street
level in Gaza
well Israel has set out a goal of
completely destroying Hamas and that's
basically impossible in a military sense
it's an Insurgent or militant or a
terrorist group call it what you like uh
it's completely mixed in with the
civilian population and there's all of
this infrastructure there's 30 years of
infrastructure that Hamas had been
building above ground below ground and
and as as Israel for instance destroys
buildings which we've seen lots of
photos of they become very easy
structures to defend and so there is no
military way to completely destroy
Hamas the president of Iran has said
that Israel has crossed what he called a
red line now how serious are those words
how serious of a threat is
that I I think we have to take comments
from the Iranian leadership as being
mostly aimed at their own
population Iran as your viewers will
probably know have had a number of
problems recently over for example the
wearing of the hijab so there's quite a
lot of unrest in Iran and so the war one
way of viewing the war for the Iranian
leadership is that it's a useful
distraction from its own domestic troubl
so when it talks of red lines and
ramping up the pressure on Israel uh
it's often aimed at its own domestic
population that it's having problems
with how significant Mike is the buildup
of Hardware from the United States uh
and their Naval their naval
fleet so I think I think there's two
things really uh first is it's a big
signal so uh the president of turkey's
been making comments over the last 24
hours so it's a signal to him not to get
involved it's a signal to the Iranians
not to get their proxies like Hezbollah
uh too active and too involved and also
what it does is it gives the Americans
options so they've got two aircraft
carrier groups there a number of missile
firing destroyers and what you know
particularly with the hostage situation
or with perhaps some of the Iranian
proxies again Hezbollah um it just gives
the Americans options for dealing with
for example rocket attacks or for
perhaps launching operations to try and
get some of those hostages back Mike
Martin in London thank you so
much thank
you